Translated from https://www.deutsche-digitale-bibliothek.de/item/FOMMF3FBZS4GVZPBZ7VK7AQWKLJDM4FV

________________________________
Bought by the most reverend and esteemed Doctor Philippus Jacobus of the Monastery of St. Peter in the Black Forest in the year 1779.
Zophius Meggle acquired it later.
Volume VI.

The Reverend Mr. Johann Joseph Gassner formerly pastor at Klösterle, now court chaplain to His High Prince the Bishop of Regensburg and professor at Ellwangen, etc. 

How to live piously and healthily, and also to die peacefully and devoutly 

or 

Useful instruction to fight the devil: 

by answering the questions: 
I. Can the devil harm the bodies of people? 
II. Which ones the most? 
III. How can it be helped? 

With the permission of the ecclesiastical authorities. Augsburg and Ingolstadt, published by Johann Franz Erck, bookseller. 1775.

 We have spiritual exorcisms in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the power of his cross. Such exorcisms not only drive the infernal dragon from his lair and cast him into hell, but they also heal wounds. If many have not been helped by these exorcisms, they must attribute the blame to their weak faith, not to the impotence of the exorcism: for many also have pressed upon Jesus himself and found nothing there. Here Chrysostom brings the example of that believing woman, who was healed of her sickness by touching the holy garment and by her faith. This name JESUS is (terrifying) to the devils, and healing against deceptions and diseases. With this we should adorn ourselves and protect ourselves with it as with a wall. Chrysost. Hom. 8. in cap. 4. Rom. 

Preface of the Editor. 

After the devil had already been deprived of all power over the bodies of humans for seven years; the involvement in witchcraft had been ridiculed; and the witches had been acquitted of all association with it; I did not expect that in these times there would be anyone who dared to take this matter so seriously. I read the sermon of Mr. Sterzinger, the works of Mr. Dellosa of Blockesberger, Kaulz, and the doubting Bavarians before this. — None of them, indeed, have resolved the passages of the Holy Scriptures, which seem to argue for the power of the devil; yet they made me doubt, I sought further, and all the more, because I do not agree with Mr. Blockesberger, and the Bavarian author of the doubts about effective witchcraft, that active witchcraft, and the devilish power are not an essential part of religion, and no object of Christian moral teaching, and therefore only belong to arbitrary school questions. So I went to the author of these pages, and indeed saw that all the above are wrong. 

4 Preface. That persistent and dangerous war, which the Apostle mentions in the Epistle to the Ephesians c. 6. v. 12. Against the rulers, powers, and authorities of this darkness, against the evil spirits in the air, etc., which all believers wage, can be no insignificant phantom. Or how can diabolical temptations, against which the Holy Scripture has commanded us sobriety and vigilance: 1 Peter 5, be counted among the possible things; if the devil is placed in the impossibility of stirring up rebellion in the human body, and of awakening alluring images in the imagination? Since temptation can penetrate the soul through these sole means. The strength and power, says the holy Peter 2. c. 2. v. 11. The angel is greater than those of men. However, the Church Fathers, along with the holy Dionysius in "The Divine Names" c. 4., recognize no difference between the blessed and the damned angels, because the latter have lost none of their inseparable qualities by their fall. Therefore, if the damned spirits cannot act upon the bodies from their natural powers, neither can the blessed spirits. This is asserted according to Psalm 90, the Epistle to the Hebrews c. 1. v. 14., and other passages: thus, the former can do it as well. This is evident from all four Gospels. The possessing devils have spoken, Luke 8. v. 30. Mark 5. v. 9. and 9. v. 26, and Christ... C

5 Preface. ...Christ commanded them to be silent; but speaking cannot be done without movement of the body and the air. The evil spirit often throws the possessed boy into the fire and many times into the water, Matt. 17:14. It hurls him, and drags him on the ground, Mark 9:17. Luke 9:39 and 42. It strikes the possessed with stones, Mark 5:5. It drives the pigs of the Gergesenes into the sea, Matt. 8:32. It makes the possessed blind, mute, and deaf, Matt. 12:22. Mark 9:24. And these retain their sight, speech, and hearing through the sole exorcism of the devil, whose use Satan had taken. It makes the possessed senseless and insensible, Mark 9:17 and 25. Luke 9:9. It causes falling sickness, Matt. 17:14. It kept the daughter of Abraham bent for 18 whole years, so that she could not straighten up, Luke 13:16. Thus, the devils have worked, consequently they have known, and can still, or one must prove to me in which year after Christ's ascension this power ceased. It is commonly said, the devil can only do such things after an extraordinary power has been granted to him by God, as Mr. Sterzinger writes. But how can this be consistent with divine holiness, truth, and justice? God would have had to at the temptation of Eve, the affliction of Job, 

 6 
..at the temptation of the Son of God, and would have to at the miracles of the Antichrist, and his false prophets, communicate a miraculous power to Satan, which does not belong to his nature. What follows? This, that God confirms an evil deed, a temptation, a false teaching with miracles; that a sinful action is more to be regarded as a work of God, the principal agent, than as a work of Satan, who serves only as an instrument. But does not divine holiness and truthfulness prevent Satan from obtaining a miraculous power from God to test the virtue of men, which he abuses for seduction and deceit? How shall we in the future confirm the truth of our religion by demonstrating miracles, if it can be objected to us that Satan, the chief of all deceivers and liars, is sometimes granted by God a power exceeding his nature? Who will be able to know whether a miracle is from God or the devil? But what about the justice of God? God commands in Exodus 12 that the sorcerers, and in Leviticus 20 that those who have the spirit of divination should be punished with death; but why, if all this is mere charlatanry? The Fathers of the Church, and venerable historians of antiquity, how many miracles have they reported to us in their writings... 

7
...left us records, which through the holy sign of the cross, through holy water, or through church exorcisms in expelling demonic spirits, performing witchcraft, and silencing heathen oracles, were performed in the early church. The ministers of the church have at all times used these as evidence of antiquity, and of the miraculous power of these sacred practices. But if the demonic spirits of all times, the active witchcraft, and the pronouncements of the demonic oracles are a nonentity (non ens), then it cannot remain indifferent to religion to consider what faith these testimonies of the first centuries of Christianity deserve in other historical accounts, after they should have deceived us in the narration of the above points. If the possessions of today's times are merely either pretense, or illness, or imagination; then one should not have entirely wronged those who claimed that the promise of Christ, Mark 16:17. in my name they will cast out demons &c. only applied to the early church, and the times of the apostles. And why then is the ordination of exorcists maintained throughout the entire church, if such an order equips the ordained with an ever idle, and never usable power? Long after the times of the apostles, the church of Christ continued with the expulsion of evil spirits, 

8 
 ...as one of the most apparent signs of their truth, established. One need only read the writings of Saint Justin Martyr, Cyprian, Cyril of Jerusalem, Tertullian, etc. Finally, what purpose do so many exorcisms in rituals, benedictionals, etc., of all dioceses, including the Roman one, serve, where it says: Instruction on exorcizing the possessed. One should not easily believe someone to be possessed by a demon, but should have those signs by which the possessed is diagnosed by those who suffer from melancholy or another disease. ---- Note the arts the demons use to deceive the exorcist; for they are very difficult to manifest. ---- Demons try to persuade that the infirmity is natural. &c. &c. In short, I am convinced that the devil has some power, although he is not to be feared, for he can be easily resisted, as the following pages, which I have taken with me from the chest at the request of the pastor, to have printed, will make clear. 


Useful instruction to fight the devil. 

It is known from divine scripture that we humans must endure a constant war and struggle throughout life. The life of man on earth is a struggle, says Job. (a) God wants us to be kept from sins through this, to feel a disgust for the earthly, a desire for the heavenly in us, and to attain eternal rest through suffering and fighting. There are indeed many visible and invisible enemies that wage war against us. (b) But the ascetics, and those experienced in spiritual struggles, as well as preachers and other scholars, recognize three main enemies with which we primarily have to fight. 1. with the world, 2. with the flesh, and 3. with the devil. II. The world, or the sinful people, which according to the statement of Saint Augustine are understood by the world (c) fights us with money, goods, honor, pride, and other things, which incite us to turn away from keeping God's commandments, and to live according to worldly rules. Whoever wants to overcome this enemy, must... (a) Militia est vita hominis super terram c. 7, v. 1. (b) Multi bellantes adversum me. Psalm. 53. (c) Mundi dixit, impiorum & iniquorum. in Psalm. 54. 

10 
...one must despise human regard, as it causes a person to omit much good and commit much evil. If I still pleased men, says St. Paul, would I be a servant of Christ? (d) If human regard had not existed, Pilate would never have delivered Jesus to death. Besides this, one must avoid the world or sinful people as much as possible, and as far as one's social and official duties allow. III. The other enemy is the foreign and one's own flesh, or its lusts and temptations. This enemy has long since drowned all the people of the world, few excepted, in the flood of sin, and this enemy is so strong that a holy bishop, Remigius, dared to say that, except for small children, few people are saved, only because of the vices of the flesh. We must overcome this enemy by fleeing, fighting, and mortifying. We should flee from foreign flesh following the example of the saints; (e) mortify our own flesh, and keep our senses in check. (d) Si adhuc hominibus placerem, Christi servus non essem. ad Galat. I. v. 10. (e) In hac pugna fugere est vincere. 

11 

Can the devil harm the body of man? 

IV. The third enemy is Satan, the devil. He is the worst and most terrible enemy, because he is a cunning, old, and raging enemy. He has already tempted our first mother Eve to eat the forbidden fruit with cunning; he has also brought her and the entire human race to ruin. This one has, until the arrival of the Son of God in the world, inclined almost all men to idolatry; he has also known how to bring down many, even the most pious people. We cannot overcome this enemy by fleeing, as he can be found in all places where a human can dwell in this world. He must be overcome through fighting and battling. (f) For this reason, he has been allowed to remain in the world, on earth and in the air, until the last day; as the saints, Augustine (g), Jerome: (f) Pugnate cum antiquo Serpente, Brev. de Ap. (g) Esse spiritus nocendi cupidissimos --- qui in hoc quidem aëre habitant: quia de caeli superioris sublimitate dejecti, merito irregrssibilis transgressionis in hoc sibi congruo velut carcere praedamnati sunt. Nec tamen quia supra terram & aquas aereus locus est; ideo & ipsi sunt meritis superiories hominibus, qui eos non terreno corpore, sed electio in auxilium Deo vero, pia mente facissime superant. L. 8. de Civ. Dei. cap. 22.

12 

Jerome (h), Thomas (i), Bonaventure (k) teach that through the struggle against temptations, we gather merits, and through fighting, attain heaven. Put on the armor of God, so that you can stand against the hidden schemes of the devil; for we are not fighting against flesh and blood, but against the princes of the powerful, against the rulers of the world, who reign in this darkness, against the crafty spirits in the air. (l) Above all, take up the shield of faith (m), with which you can extinguish all the fiery darts of the wicked one. The apostle admonishes us against them, says Saint Augustine, to be armed, with whom we have a hidden struggle. 


13 

...concerning this, the holy Peter also admonishes us: be sober, and watchful, because your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour: resist him, standing firm in the faith. (o) V. Satan attacks us humans both in body and soul, and in all our matters. He first assaults the soul by instilling sinful thoughts; he makes man have a desire for evil and forbidden things, and an aversion to good things. This is why man feels resistance and difficulty towards doing good and must force himself to do good with effort: (p), whereas he feels a drive, a desire, an ease towards evil. This cause is not only because our nature is corrupted by original sin and inclined to evil; but also because the evil enemy creates resistance in the first case and a drive in the second. This is a trick of the devil, writes the insightful Antonius Boissieu, that he enlarges the matter and presents it as impossible when one is to do good, but diminishes it when he seeks to incite us to sin. This is the essence of the struggle with the cunning enemy. The other way the tempter uses to assault our soul is that he exploits our evil discontent, the flesh, and natural inclinations... (o) Sobrii estote &c. 1. Pet. cap. 5. (p) Regnum cœlorum vim patitur, Mat. 11. v. 12. 

14 

...awakens it, makes it rebellious, and uses it as a tool to plunge us into sins. The flesh of a holy Benedict, Bernard, Francis, etc. was weakened by many undertaken penances and restricted lifestyle; so naturally, these and other saints could not be tempted with such heat, that they would be driven to roll in thorns, frozen waters, or snow, if Satan had not incited the flesh to fight against the spirit. Saint Paul also clearly acknowledges this when he speaks of himself: I perceive another law in my members, which is opposed to the law of my mind. (q) A thorn in the flesh has been given to me, namely the angel of Satan, to strike me with fists. (r) By which he wanted to indicate that the devil had attacked and incited his flesh. If this happened to Saint Paul, who was taken up to the third heaven, what will happen to humans? Thirdly, the devil attacks our souls through people. When Satan tried everything to make Job impatient and failed; he incited his wife to make her husband impatient. Job 2:9. Some also hold that the devil sought to... (q) I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind. Rom. 7:23. (r) There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me. 2 Cor. 12:7. 

15 

...Pilate's wife attempted to prevent the human redemption; because, as Pilate sat on the judgment seat, she sent word to him saying: Have nothing to do with that just man, for I have suffered many things in a dream because of him. (s) The old serpent would not have brought Adam to transgression if she had not done so through enticement and admonition. It is customary for Satan to use people as his helpers to wage war against us, incite us, and lead us into sin. The world and the flesh are his allies and are very suitable for hiding his snares, plunging our souls into sin and vice, and many into impenitence, and eternal ruin. VI. Not only the soul but also the body is targeted by Satan with diseases and physical evils. He acts like a thief, when he attacks a traveler, he first seeks to get money; if he finds none, he takes his clothes and everything he can carry away. The evil spirits, writes the holy Pope Gregory (t), tend to make our journey to eternity unsafe and to ambush us like murderers. Although Satan primarily seeks to assault our soul and plunge us into sin, if he encounters strong resistance... (s) Matthew 27:19. (t) Maligni spiritus iter nostrum, quasi quidam latrunculi obsidunt. In Evang. Matth. c. 13.

16 

...finds resistance, he turns to our body, partly to exercise his rage on it, and to make it unsuitable for good; partly gradually by means of pains and diseases of the body to bring the soul into impatience, anger, murmuring against God, despondency and discouragement, as well as to cause discord in marriage, or in the household, poverty, and other evils through such artifices; from which many sins and vices, temporal and often eternal destruction, arise. We have a proof of this in Job, whom the devil, when God presented his piety (u) only for the reason of being devout because he was so healthy. Stretch out your hand, he said, and touch his bone and flesh, and then you will see, etc. And when God allowed Satan the power, not only to harm him in his possessions and goods, but also to make his body sick, he sought through this to bring him to impatience and sin. Job became ill, not by nature, but by the devil. Why then should this not also happen to other people? If one reads the lives of the saints, one will find that they have been frequently plagued and made sick by the devil in body; for if God allows our soul, as the better part, to be tempted by Satan; why should he not also allow the body to be tempted? (u) Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil? Job 2:5. 

17 

...afflict the body, as the inferior part, all the more because the body must also endure other evils and be tempted together with the soul, if it is to enjoy eternal joy with the soul in the end? A runner, when he pursues another runner, shoots sometimes at the man, sometimes at the horse, as he can and may; thus also the wicked pursuer, the general enemy of mankind, according to the testimony of the apostle in Ephesians, (x) shoots his fiery darts at us, and shoots both at the body and the soul, as well as he can. VII. The devil can easily afflict the body with pains and diseases, because he notices no resistance, and thus, as the pious penance preacher Pinamonti (y) remarks, for this very reason there are so many sickly and very often incurably ill people on earth; because the devil often hides himself under seemingly natural diseases, like the snake in the grass, whose color it has taken on, is not noticed until one steps on it; thus Satan can easily hide with his disguised diseases, while people do not recognize him, but think their ailment has its origin in nature, in fluids... (x) Ad Ephes. cap. 6. v. 16. (y) In his book titled: Exorcista rite instructus.

18 

...ailments, colds, hard work, eating and drinking, from desires and other similar natural things; and since most people have no knowledge of this temptation, there is also no defense, and one does not use the aids that God has given us in the holy Gospel, and through the Church. The Church blesses water every Sunday, and uses among others these words: That this creature, which serves your mysteries, may receive the power to drive away the devils and to expel diseases, and to receive the effect of divine grace, etc. (z) Likewise, she also blesses the ashes on Ash Wednesday, among other things, with the following words: Grant that by invoking your most holy name, all who are sprinkled with it may receive the remission of their sins, health of body, and protection of the soul, through our Lord Jesus Christ. (a) Because of the blessing, the water or the ashes have no power to expel natural diseases, therefore the Catholic Church understands such diseases to have been caused by the evil spirit. VIII. Just as Satan tempts all people in their souls, so can he also... (z) Ut Creatura Mysteriis tuis serviens ad abigendos dæmones, morbosque pellendos divinæ gratiæ sumat effectum &c., Missal. (a) Concede per Invocationem sanctissimi Nominis tui &c. ibidem in die cinerum. 

19 

...afflict all people, regardless of sex or status, in the body, by imitating natural diseases. Hence it comes that so many people have incurable diseases, although they use all possible natural remedies from medical experts; because very often the disease is either not natural, or because something unnatural is found to be united with the natural. However, I do not want to be understood as saying that there should be no natural diseases; but only to indicate that very often unnatural diseases are made by the evil spirit through a pure temptation which is supposed to be natural, and indeed in three ways; first, physically, or through real pains in a way known to the devil, applicatio activa passivis. Secondly: imaginatively, through imagined pains, where the evil enemy can present pains in the imagination or fantasy, as if they were real, as with a dreaming person, when they are not actually there. Thirdly: per naturam, or that he knows how to direct natural humors, flows, blood, and other things, owing to his retained knowledge, from one place to another, whereby the ailment is at the same time natural but caused by an unnatural force; In which cases only natural medicine can provide complete help, but spiritual means are also to be used. Hence it comes that it sometimes seems that the... 

20 

...medicines help, and soon the old disease returns, if one does not also use spiritual means; and often the medical experts are wronged, as they are blamed for the lack of help, because it is not they, but the hidden unnatural evil that prevents complete recovery, which a doctor cannot know unless he is instructed through long experience in such cases and brought to knowledge through the use of spiritual means. The doctors have a principle, never to consider anything unnatural, as long as they can explain the ailment or sick condition naturally. This the cunning enemy knows very well, hence he always tries to imitate the natural and disguises himself falsely, as he already did in Paradise, to deceive the unsuspecting Eve. (b) IX. Many people hold two opposing principles and err in both. Many want to claim that all diseases are natural, and there is nothing unnatural. These err against the opinion of the learned, holy fathers, and the Catholic Church itself. (c) Others, on the other hand, believe that all unnatural things come from magic and witchcraft, which is also false; for a lot of unnatural things come from a... (b) Transfigure himself into an angel of light. (c) There are many famous doctors who are convinced that... 

21 

...pure temptation of the devil has its origin, as seen from the Gospel according to Matthew 17, in the case of the lunatic, as well as in Job, and King Saul, and from other passages of Holy Scripture. X. What are the categories of people afflicted by the devil called: Circunfessos, Angesochte? Obsessos seu Maleficatos, Enchanted and Possessed, or Possessed people. Of the latter, there are very few in reality, but many in imagination and malicious pretense: and when the honorable Christoph Beer in his commendable intelligence, Zetul, wants to prove that the confusion of the world comes from many thousands of secretly possessed; he mostly means enchanted and afflicted, which does not support his claim. There are more enchanted (Maleficatos); but Circunfessos (quoad animam & corpus) afflicted in the soul... that there are Maleficia, and here as evidence serve Dr. Hofmannus de potent. diabol. in corp. §. 24. Formann, Foretus, Langiurs, Sennertus, Codronchus, Bartholinus, Merlichinius who in his treatise de Incantamentis, 66, similar cases, mostly from his own experience, reports that not worms, frogs, snakes, mice, etc. (which nature might possibly produce in the human body) but sticks, nails, knives, hairpins, sealing wax, glasses, and other artifices have come out of the mouths, thighs, arms, knees, ears, etc. of the afflicted.

22 

...more often also in the body, mostly. Yes, we are all often tempted in the soul, often also in the body, but not all equally; some more often, some not often, depending on whether a person gives the evil spirit more or less cause for temptation. The other way that some can be afflicted with illness is through devilry and superstition. There are people in the world who, often through evil associations in foreign or their own countries, or by obtaining a superstitious book, learn incantations, ceremonies, glass eating, causing illnesses, and healing the same through certain words and signs. These godless people and devil artists use certain superstitious phrases, questions, and signs, believing that these things have those effects which they certainly hope for and have often obtained; meanwhile, they have a secret pact with the devil, and the devil causes the effects they believe their arts can achieve if God permits it, although they should know that everything that is not from nature, or from God and the Church, is from the devil, and hence forbidden. These malicious people, when they are offended by someone, or believe themselves to be, and bear hatred, give them a drink or employ other devilish arts and superstitions, which cause the devil to harm people or cattle and afflict them with illness. In this way, much evil happens, as a lot of such artists in the... 

23 

...the world is, which harms human society through their alleged arts. XI. The third way by which disease can come to people and cattle is through magic and witchcraft, of which the world speaks so much. Some believe it does not exist; others believe the rest. But it is easy to assert, as Jews, Heathens, Christians, and all peoples, scholars, and the uneducated have always believed. Indeed, the Old and New Testaments bear witness to it. Just read the books of Moses, and the Acts of the Apostles, as well as the letters of the Apostle Paul, and other passages of the Holy Scripture. (d) If there was magic then, why shouldn't there be such now? since no vice ceases by itself. Is the world better now? Indeed, the effects of magic are so evident that they cannot be completely hidden. Who could think that judges and authorities are so unjust or ignorant that they still let so many people be burned and executed? (e) There are magicians, and such are those who were either seduced in their youth... (d) Leviticus 10:20. 1 Samuel 28:0. 2 Chronicles 33. Daniel 1:20 & 2:2. Wisdom 17. Isaiah 47:12. Micah 5:11. Nahum chapter 3. Exodus 7:12 & 9:11. Deuteronomy chapter 18. Jeremiah chapter 27. Malachi chapter 3. &c. (e) That there is practical magic has been recently proven in a dissertation by Alexius Planch, Odr. Serv. B. V. M. of Januabruck. 

24 

...become, or in old age out of greed or lust, lose themselves so far that they sign themselves over to the devil with body and soul; renounce God and all saints; promise the devil to offend God in every possible way, and to harm people and their belongings; in return, the devil, at least in their imagination, promises them temporal luck, honors, money, and other temporal advantages, pleasures of the flesh, etc. (f) XII. (f) Some want the devil to use the following trick to seduce these people and keep them in their wickedness; he tells them that there are three kingdoms: the heavenly, the earthly, and the hellish. Into the heavenly come those who serve God with great holiness; this kingdom is certainly the best; but it is very difficult for people to get into it, therefore Christ said: Many are called, but few are chosen; he and his angels thought many thoughts in heaven that were not pleasing to God, and therefore had to leave God. What will happen to people, if the angels cannot stand pure enough before His face. The earthly kingdom, the largest, is on this world, and consists of that joy which he truly shows them, and allows them to understand. Thus, he shows them, as he once showed Christ on the mountain, a dazzling kingdom, pretending that he is the lord and prince of this world as also named by the holy Paul in Ephesians 6. If he were not such, he would not be able to make them so happy. The third is the hellish kingdom. All those people who neither serve God nor him, the devil, come here; and he has the power to torment them in hell; he will be called a prince in hell, but he suffers no pains, and... 

25 

XII. Satan teaches these people black magic or sorcery; that is, he teaches them to cause every evil or disease to people and cattle, certain spells, blessings, words or signs, and a specific recipe for each evil, so that if such a person learns many of these signs and recipes, they will surpass others in the art of sorcery. But this should happen, as the famous Martin Delrio writes, in this way: The devil says to his servants: I will make it equal to the highest: (g) he has his secrets and has given his servants visible signs of invisible grace; as often as they use them rightly, he shows them his promised effect, so I also give you visible signs (Signa & pacta) if you use these rightly and properly, I will also let the effect come to you through my help; you will be able to affect people and cattle... just to let out his rage and power here on earth, and show over the damned. That Satan uses this trick is believed to be true from the confession of converted sorcerers. And how else would some impenitent people be able to go to the stake, (as experience has shown) if they think they are going to hell? That they have no hope of heaven is easy for them to imagine if they consider their previous godless life. So they must hope for another kingdom, namely the earthly one forsaken by the devil, in which Satan assumes the form of banished sorcerers, and usually appears, thus strengthening the living in their hope and deceiving them all the more. (g) Similis ero Altissimo. Isaiah 14:14. 

 26 

... Cattle by causing various diseases, practicing arts, performing miracles, making you happy, and thus pleasing me. And so that they use these signs more readily, and thereby practice superstition, thus offending God more gravely, and harming people, he, according to Del-Rio's opinion, holds regular weekly, at least in imagination, more frequent gatherings, especially on those days when God is usually honored more by the orthodox believers, so that in this way God is more dishonored and offended by these servants of the devil. He then rewards those who have diligently practiced sorcery, and punishes those who have been negligent in the last gathering. That is why these rascals are so eager to harm others, even their closest friends, and sorcery will secretly increase more and more, because through this the kingdom of the Antichrist is to be prepared. According to the testimony of Saint Ephems Serm. de Antichristo, Saint Anselmus, in Elucid., Saint Cyril's catechesis 17, and Bernardinus a Busto, tom. II., the Antichrist will be born of sorcerous parents: and as the devout Bishop Andreas of Crete, along with the above-mentioned holy fathers, attests, the Antichrist will be the foremost prince of sorcery in all miracles, and among all black magicians the highest ringleader. It is this sorcerer that Christ predicted in Matthew 24:24. False Christs and false prophets will arise... 

27 

prophets, and will show great signs and wonders, so that even the elect, if it were possible, would be deceived. And the holy Apostle Paul writes, 2 Thessalonians 2:4, about the Antichrist: Whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, says the third spirit explicitly, that in the last times some shall fall away from the faith, and give heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils. (h) Whom can he harm. XIII. Now the question is: Since sorcerers can do nothing of themselves, but everything through the assistance of the devil, does God then always allow the devil so much power? that seems contrary to God's providence. The answer is: No. God does not always allow the devil power, otherwise such people would have long since ruined everything through the devil; but only under certain circumstances. The devil, says the holy Father Augustine, is bound, like a dog on a chain, and he can bite no one, except those who draw near to him with deadly temptation. (h) Now the Spirit speaks expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, 1 Timothy 4:1.

28 

A hunting dog is eager to hunt; but he cannot until the hunter releases him from the leash. The raging hellhound is bound by the chain of God's omnipotence and providence; he can harm no one unless he is given power by God. God allows him to bark at us, to tempt us, but not to bite or overcome us; unless we, of our own free will, draw near to him. That person who is tempted in their soul cannot be led into sin unless they give their will to it; thus, the devil can also tempt humans in their bodies, but not harm them, if the person resists him and uses the means of salvation that God has appointed. However, those who draw near the raging hellhound so that he can bite them are children of distrust (i) in the protection of God. Satan tends to gain more power over such people in their bodies, first, those who through great sins and vices give the devil greater power over their souls, and consequently also over their bodies; thus God often allows the devil to torment the body so that the soul may be saved, as the holy Paul handed over that young man and two others, Hymenaeus and Alexander, to be tormented by the devil for this reason. (k) We make ourselves susceptible to the devil's torments through our sins, says the (i) Sons of disobedience. Ephesians 5:6. (k) Whom I have delivered to Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. 1 Timothy 1:20. 

 29 

The holy Chrysostomus Sermon 16 states that the devils have the power to harm us. Drexelius (l) speaks similarly, explaining that for this reason, God sometimes allows entire communities and countries to be afflicted by hail, storms, untimely snow, floods, and other such evils made by evil men through the devil; because often through secret or public sins, vices, and offenses, such punishment is deserved, and God uses the evil will of the wicked and the devil to punish sins. (m) XIV. However, I do not want to conclude from this that anyone who suffers such attacks has always deserved it through their sins. On the contrary, the devil is more hateful to the devout than to the sinful because the latter already fulfill his will without resistance. Job was the most devout man in the world at his time, (n) and yet Satan had great power over him and his belongings, so that the works of God would be revealed through his persecution and patience. Similarly, when Christ's disciples asked about the man born blind, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents? He answered: Neither this man nor his parents sinned; but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. (l) De conform. vol.1, 5. c. 10. (m) Virga Assur. Isaiah 30:31. (n) Job 2:5.

30 

revealed in him. (o) The holy Paul and other servants and maidservants of God have often been greatly afflicted by the evil enemy in body and soul, and persecuted; but it has only happened for their benefit. XV. Secondly: Satan has more power over those people who are given to much and strong fear; where then generally the falling sickness; and extraordinary visions from such fear come, also no doctor can rarely help; because such conditions are known to be unnatural from experience with many hundreds. Thirdly: Satan has more power to harm those who are fearful, who fear ghosts, spirits, the devil, and his followers or also misfortune, diseases, and other evils by day and especially by night, where experience teaches that only those often come into the so-called attacks, evil winds, or alterations, who are strongly afraid; those, however, who are fresh and encouraging, and have good confidence in God, remain free from such attacks. Satan knows this very well; therefore he tends to frighten the fearful minds through made turmoil, noises, crashes, and other disturbances, also through delusive appearances, to make them fearful; he lets himself be seen in houses, chambers, cellars, stables, or on the streets, sometimes like a fiery, sometimes like (o) John. c. 9. v. 2. 

 31 

like a black, sometimes white man, sometimes in a terrible dog: or other animal, sometimes in the form of a deceased person; so that sometimes the deceased are given a bad name, as it is said, this or that ghost, etc.; sometimes through these forms, people are brought into fear, and fright! and thus can become ill. XVI. Fourthly: the devil has power to make those sick more often, who are given to inhuman anger; and have great displeasure. As he then fifthly: has a greater power to afflict, in soul and body, all sad, anxious, melancholy, despondent, sorrowful, scrupulous, and melancholic, as the proverb says: The devil tends to fish in troubled waters. Therefore, no always sad person will be healthy; and doctors do not like to treat such cases; because they say: they are hypochondriacs, and not much can be done with them: but they do not know why; it is namely, in such patients, their condition is generally natural, or at least mixed with the natural. Why then does the devil have more power over such people to afflict them in soul and body? because they are children of distrust (filii diffidentiae) and place too little hope on God's goodness, protection and assistance. Therefore it happens, that very often people are sickly; because they are often scrupulous, anxious, always afraid, they 


 32 

do not confess properly; are not in the grace of God, do not become blessed, etc. Due to this distrust, which Satan tends to create in them, the power often comes to harm the health of their bodies; yes, it has often made some stubborn, so that they have wanted to take their own lives; or even brought to this point, as I know many examples of this and as the famous ascetic Le Maistre confirms in his years of contemplation. Hence, many confessors have to exert extraordinary effort with their sorrowful penitents, very often without benefit; because they did not recognize the attacks of Satan, and since the root weed is not torn out with the root, but grows back immediately; Satan cunningly points out new tricks from the old ones, confuses the penitent, tires the confessor, and makes the bystanders impatient and much inclined to distraction. The heavy temperament of the melancholic nature and most anxious consciences are blamed, without considering or knowing from where and by whom the nature was made melancholy and the conscience anxious. King Saul was long a half-madman; it had to be nature that was guilty; if David with his harp playing and singing of psalms had not driven out the devil from Saul and made him sensible again. Thus, the moon had to be blamed for a long time, so that that moon-sick youth in Matthew 17, at the waxing moon, threw himself into the fire and water. 

 33 

until Christ drove the devil out of him; Satan indeed wants, says the holy Jerome about this passage of the holy Scripture, that people always blame nature, and not him, so that he can harm more quietly. A thief never breaks into a house more easily than when a strong wind blows; for thus those who inhabit the house blame the wind when a tumult is heard, and not the breaking in. XVII. Something unnatural can also befall a person through wishes and curses, as is well known from the most reliable stories, that very often the wishes and curses of parents over their children, and others over those who have given reprehensible occasion to curse and wish, have been fulfilled. The innocent, however, have nothing to fear from such curses or wishes, otherwise the world would have long since perished. It has also often happened that something was given to a person in food or drink, which he enjoyed without blessing beforehand, due to malice; or the person at that time did not have sufficient trust in God. No less does God allow the devil power over those who use superstitious means, so that instead of help from the devil, harm and misfortune come to them. Thus it is quite 
 

34 

happened to Ahaziah (p) King in Israel, who, because he asked the idol Baal-Zebub about his illness, received a death sentence from the true God as a punishment for his disbelief. If one of these or similar causes is present, one should not be surprised if something unnatural happens to the person. But since natural and unnatural illnesses look the same outwardly, and no doctor can distinguish the unnatural from the natural, it raises the question of how one can gain knowledge of this. XVIII. The most experienced teachers give different signs in this matter (q) among others; if a medical expert, after thorough examination, is uncertain in his diagnosis of the condition, and knows nothing for certain to judge: If the disease does not improve after all applied remedies: if the disease does not gradually improve, but shows very strong from the beginning: if the person is sometimes healthy and sometimes sick within an hour: if something in the person's body sometimes moves from one limb to another, and often a lump seems to come into the throat, then disappears again, and (p) 4 Kings 1. (q)

35 

and comes again: when the person is not present for a long time and is still strong, or when they eat a lot and still become weak and lean all over the body, without being affected by any disease of the liver or lungs; when the disease shows itself worse during holy times, or in churches, or during prayer. From these and many other similar signs, they conclude that the disease is unnatural. The clearest signs, however, are first: when the evil improves immediately upon the use of spiritual means. Secondly, the most certain and indeed infallible is when an experienced priest in this matter, through the sign of the cross or by command in the name of Jesus, can alleviate the pain and by another command (per praeceptum probativum) make it greater again, indeed even move it to another limb, and this repeatedly: for if the disease or pain were natural, it would not cease or come back at the command; because the priest has no power over nature, but over the evil enemy who causes the pain. It is to be noted, however, that a person in this matter, and the aforementioned points, must be well instructed beforehand, and the test if it gives no sign; often must be repeated; because with the sad and those who mostly consider their diseases to be natural, as well as with the stubborn, and far-reaching only with great difficulty the test can be obtained.

 36 

and often therefore, as the test does not show quickly, a priest and the person themselves might assume that there is nothing unnatural, although it might secretly be there; from which sometimes the person refrains from spiritual means, and as the natural means cannot help, the condition remains for the time of their life, or the person dies prematurely. 

 How to help? 

XIX. Now the question is: If a patient once has the test and is certain that their illness is unnatural, what should they do and what means should they use? 

The answer is: "Firstly, they should adhere to the declaration of the priest who considers their illness to be unnatural; because otherwise, as the teachers write and experience shows, such a person will never have sufficient faith. The devil and the pain caused by him must retreat when he considers the evil to be unnatural, which indeed believing it must certainly retreat is necessary, and precisely because of this, repeated blessings and the use of consecrated items often do not help people and animals, because strong faith in the means is lacking. It is a false statement by many people that one should believe nothing evil, otherwise, it could come sooner; the belief that something evil is present, gives the devil... 

37 

The devil has no power to harm, only when one fears the evil, does he have more power, but not if one believes, otherwise the apostle Peter would not always exhort: we should watch and be vigilant, the devil roams around us to devour us. We should resist him strongly in faith. Peter does not say, we should not believe, but we should fight and bravely arm ourselves like a good soldier who diligently keeps watch, and would fail if he thought there was no enemy, for thus he could easily be overpowered; however, if the soldier is watchful, believes the enemy is there, but does not fear, the city can hope for protection. Thus we do not fail if we believe for reasonable reasons that the devil is after us, but do not fear him, but bravely fight against him. This is the will and desire of God, that the devil should be fought and overcome by us. God admonishes us through the Catholic Church: Be strong and brave in the fight with the faithful serpent, and you will attain eternal life. (r) That so few attain the kingdom of God is due to the fact that few resist the secret machinations of the cunning serpent; because they think (since she is not visible) that she is not present. C 3 XX. (r) Office of the Apostle. 

38 

XX. The second remedy is that such a patient avoids fright, fear, anger, sadness, melancholy, anxiety, and melancholy; as long as these afflict the patient, there is no help for him, because these evils weaken and even extinguish trust in God and the spiritual remedies. Christ often rebuked his disciples for their excessive care, sorrow, and sadness, saying: why are you sad? God demands diligence from us, not sorrow and care, which make us lose trust in Him: we should serve Him as children, not as servants. A servant serves his master diligently; because he fears losing his reward, or even being cast out of service: the child, on the other hand, works because it loves its parents. Many among people serve God as servants in sadness, fear, and dread; because they fear losing heaven and being cast into hell. But few serve God as children, that is, out of love for Him; and are ready to obey His commandments even if there were no heaven or hell. It is true that the man who fears God is blessed (s), but it is not to be understood as a desperate fear; as the holy Paul writes, wrath comes (s) Psalm. III. V. I. 

39 

God over the children of mistrust. (t) Over whom God is angry, the devil also retains power. XXI. Thirdly: the patient must have a firm faith and trust in God, and the most holy name of Jesus. In my name, says Christ, Mark 16, devils will be cast out; and the 72 disciples, when they returned, said: Lord! the devils are subject to us in your name. Luke 10. Man should also have good faith in the sign of the holy cross, holy water, and other means blessed and ordained by the Church. However, it must be noted that these means are only effective if one has an unwavering faith; not so much in the means, but in God, who helps us through them. Just as the priest cannot validly absolve a penitent from his sins if the penitent does not have supernatural repentance; likewise, he cannot help a person afflicted with an unnatural illness through exorcisms or other healing means if he does not have strong and firm faith. Your faith has helped you - was always Christ's reassurance to those healed. In the Acts of the Apostles, some Jews, namely the seven sons of the high priest Sceva, attempted to mimic the Apostles - they wanted to exorcise devils in the name of Jesus, saying: I adjure (t) Ephesians 5 v. 6. 

40 

adjure you by Jesus, whom Paul preaches: (u) but the evil spirit answered them and said: Jesus I know well, and Paul I know well, but who are you? (x) And the man in whom an evil spirit was, jumped on them, overpowered them and was too strong for them, so that they fled naked and wounded from the house. From which event of the Holy Scripture it is clear that it is not enough just to call upon and name the name of Jesus, without living faith. The devil said: who are you? as if to say: You are mockers of spiritual matters, of church ceremonies: you are freethinkers, belly servers, cursers, desecrators of the name of Jesus, lukewarm and cold, not even Christians at all, etc. - how will you cast me out in the name of Jesus, in whom you do not even believe? Thus, people will neither drive the devil away by the mightiest name of Jesus, nor by other means of salvation, if they do not have strong faith, a good conscience, true trust. Many use the means of salvation but without faith and devotion, only out of habit, only at certain times and not when the enemy advances. A soldier would fail if he fired his gun in the morning, at noon, and at night, but did not shoot when the enemy approached.

 (u) Acts 10. V. 15. (x) Ibid. v. 15.


41 

likewise, those people lack who use the sign of the cross, holy water, the invocation of the name of Jesus only out of habit, without zeal, only at certain times, and not as often as necessary to fight. XXII. But man must fight himself, and resist the temptation of Satan. But how this should happen, Christ has given us the instruction in the holy Gospel according to Matthew c. 4; he was led into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. (y) The teachers ask why Christ wanted to be tempted by the devil; and answer: Firstly; so that he may overcome our temptations through his own, or that we may overcome the temptations of Satan through the grace of Christ deserved and obtained from God the Father (z) Secondly: so that he may teach us, if he, as the Son of God, was tempted by the devil, we should not be surprised to be tempted by the same in body and soul; as the devil could even carry Christ to the pinnacles of the temple, and to a mountain. Christ wanted to be tempted three times, although he could have driven the devil away the first time, to teach us that we will be tempted often in life. Christ drove (y) Evang. Dom. I. Quadrag. (z) S. Greg. Pope in the same Gospel. 

42

 the devil away with the command (vade): he could have taken away his power to tempt and cast him into hell without a word; but he wanted to use this to teach us how we should resist the temptations of Satan in soul and body. (a) It is worth noting that, as long as Christ did not drive away the devil, but only despised the temptations through answers, the devil did not retreat, but only came up with new temptations: but as soon as Christ used this command, Vade Satana, go away Satan, the temptations stopped. Thus, as long as man only resists the temptations, despises them, and rejects them, he does not sin, but he does not get rid of his temptations until he commandingly drives the devil away. This is the reason why so many pious souls often have to endure the most terrible temptations and cannot get rid of them despite all resistance; because they do not know how to drive the devil away by command. God's wisdom wanted to instruct us with his example, how we should fight with the devil. He said: go away Satan, so we too should, if not with words, at least in our thoughts say: (vade Satana) Go (a) Voluit sapientia Dei erudiendos informare Exemplo, & intra tentamenta proponere documenta S. Cypranus.


43 

away, be gone, I command you in the name of Jesus, away from my soul and body. How powerful the name of Jesus is, Chrysostomus (b) and Driesnes explain to us in his first book against Celsius: Such is the power, he says, in the name of Jesus, which is invoked against the devil, that it works great things, even when spoken by the godless: for it is certain that Christians, without other incantations and arts, alone by the name of Jesus perform such wonders. Experience has often taught that the invocation of the name of Jesus expels countless devils from both the soul and body of men, and in these from whom the devils have been driven out, it has exerted the greatest power. The name of Jesus brings confused minds to right, drives out devils, and frees from diseases. Is 

(b) Sunt enim nobis, sunt, inquam nobis incantationes spirituales, ipsum Nomen Domini Jesu Christi, tum ipsius Crucis potentia Huijusmodi incantatione non solum Draconem a speluncis abigit, atque in ignem conjicit, sed & vulneribus quoque medetur. Quod si multi existere, qui dictis illis carminibus sanati minime fuerint, accusent illi modicam suam fidem, non dicti infirmitatem, quando & ipsum Jesum multi quidem pellex

44
 If the temptation is in the soul, let the person remember in their heart, "pack yourself away Satan with this temptation from my soul, I command you in the name of Jesus," and if the person with firm faith and trust fights steadfastly (cui restitite fortes in fide), Satan will certainly yield, and the person will easily avoid sins; abandon the worst old habits; practice and confess virtue; serve God much more easily than sinners imagine according to that saying of Christ in the Holy Matthew c. 11. "My yoke is sweet and my burden is light." (c) XXIII. If the temptation is in the body through pain or diseases, which one recognizes from reasonable causes, that they are not natural; one should fight just in this way and think in their heart: "Go away Satan with these bodily temptations": and the pain will cease. However, it is to be noted, she pressed and pressed, yet nevertheless gained nothing. But the woman who suffered from a flow of blood, not by touching the body, but by merely touching the hem of the garment, stopped the long-lasting sources of blood. This name is terrible to demons and healing for diseases. Therefore, let us adorn ourselves with this, as with a wall, let us fortify ourselves. 

Chrysostom Hom. 8. on c. 4. Rom. (c) For the name of Jesus is of such importance in Dæ- T

45 
When the temptations of the soul or the body do not immediately cease with the first command, the person must repeat the command with even firmer faith until the temptation completely departs. In this way, a person can not only free themselves but also all that is theirs from the snares of hell. Very useful and truthful is what the venerable Mr. Antonius Reihle, Dean in Scheer, writes in his booklet The Triumphant Name of Jesus, that indeed every person, even a possessed or enchanted one, can drive the devil away from themselves and all their belongings through the given command in the holiest name of Jesus. And if householders did not use so much superstition and devilish arts in their houses and places in an unbelieving manner, they would know and recognize how easily they can drive the devil away from their houses, stalls invoke demons, whether it be through the wickedly named, to accomplish many things--since it is established that Christians, with no incantations or inventions, but only in the name of Jesus, do these things. The invocation of the name of Jesus has often been witnessed, both from the souls and bodies of countless demons, and in these, it has exercised the greatest force, from which demons have been expelled–

The name of Jesus calms disturbed minds, drives away demons, and heals diseases Origen. 1. against Celsus. 


46

 their animals, and everything they possess, and which seem to be troubled in an unnatural way, can drive them away in this or the following similar manner: I command you, you hellhound, in the most holy name of Jesus, that you immediately depart from this house (stable, cattle, or whatever it may be) and in no way cause it any harm, in the name of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Thus, this command drives away the screaming or 'Trud' from children and adults; dissolves all created apparitions, disturbances, obstacles in making lard, hindrances in marriage caused by maleficium; keeps the child in the womb, promotes birth, often where the unnatural brings mother and child to death; preserves the mother's milk, frees the cattle from all witchcraft, the houses from apparitions, the fields from harmful vermin, hail, storms; people themselves from all kinds of illnesses, dangers, misfortunes on water and land; also serves to relieve the heart from all sadness, to drive away all temptations. It is indeed by the power of the spiritual consecration of the special authority to expel the evil spirits along with all maleficium from the bodies, houses, etc., reserved to the priests alone. However, every Christian believer, by virtue of holy baptism, has a general--- 



47 
has received power over the evil spirits from Christ, through which he can protect and free himself and his own by means of true trust in God, and through the command given in the name of Jesus from all evil; according to the words and promises of Christ in Mark at the end, and Matthew in the 8th chapter: the signs that will follow those who believe are these: in my name, they will cast out devils, etc. For one cannot always have a priest in all trials of soul or body. Just as every person in the case of necessity has the power to baptize, even though it is otherwise reserved for the priest, so also in these circumstances, he has the power to drive out evil from his possessions, but not in others, as otherwise, many disorders would result if such a person assumed a priestly authority and wanted to exorcise others. 

XXIV. In this way, a possessed person (Possessus) as well as a bewitched (Obsessus seu Maleficatus) and a person afflicted in soul or body (Circumfessus) can help himself, and protect his own from all attacks of hell: Yes, even on his deathbed, he can jump up himself, as, if the person has practiced well in spiritual combat in life, it will be easy for him on his deathbed to--- 

48 
overcome the temptations of Satan, and speak to the tempting Satan with a holy Martinus: you bloodthirsty beast, you will have no part in me: (d) when God is with me, who can harm me? - I can do all things through him who strengthens me. (e) On the other hand, if a person has been inexperienced in the struggle with Satan in life, and has overcome him himself, he will be like an untrained soldier in the final battle (where hell will use all its forces, their 20. 30. 40. 70. years of effort not in vain, and making eternity miserable for man) hard, and only with special grace of God can overcome. Woe to the earth and the sea, laments St. John in his revelations; for the devil comes to you, and has great wrath, because he knows that he has little time. (f) A laborer doubles his effort, and gathers all his strength to complete his work, when he notices that the sun is about to set, and the day ends. So does the arch-enemy of men, the wicked Satan, noticing that we want to die. A dying man is more than otherwise, 

(d) 2. Noct. in Fest. S. Mart. (e) Philip. c. 4. v. 13. (f) Apoc. c. 12. 

 49 
otherwise, also with reference to other hellish aids more fiercely and more heatedly; because the time is short. (qui tempus breve est) As many always come to die, says the holy Gregory, all have a battle to endure with the evil spirits. He holds the dying person accountable for the past, how and what he has sinned in thoughts, words, and deeds, with the omission of many good works, and how badly the precious time has been used for sinning, or for doing nothing. Secondly: he holds the dying person accountable for the present, in what bad state he finds himself from everyone, even the closest friends and the whole world left, in great bodily and spiritual pain. Thirdly: Satan presents the dying person with the strict justice of God, the imminent hard judgment, and the long dreadful eternity. Therefore, it is not surprising that many people perish because they are not experienced, not practiced in spiritual combat. Know God, writes the holy Augustine, who created you, o man! without you, He will not save you. The Son of God has redeemed us from eternal death and from the captivity of hell, but note well! according to the testimony of the Evangelist John, He has given us the power to become children of God. It is required of us that we make the suffering of Jesus Christ useful to us by holding 

50 
the commandments of God, and brave overcoming of our soul's enemies: the world, the flesh, and the devil. For this struggle and overcoming, the knowledge of the spiritual struggle is necessary; and I have written the present script for learning this; whoever uses it rightly will prevail, which I wish for all people, and would give them God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Amen. 

 How to fight the temptations of customs. 

I command in the name of Jesus every devil in particular, and all together, that you shall depart from my body and soul with all temptations, and henceforth have no power to trouble me neither in soul nor body; for I will 

51 
will stand in the protection of God, and the most holy name of Jesus. Who is like God? Holy, holy, holy is he, whom I love above all else, because he is the highest good; in whom I believe, that he can help me, because he is almighty; on whom I hope, that he will help me, because he is infinitely good and merciful; will help me; because he has promised it, and in his promise is infinitely faithful and true. I will fight in life and death in the name of God the Father † and the Son † and the Holy Spirit † Amen. 

Shorter way to fight. I command you, hellish spirit and your followers, by the power of the most holy name of Jesus, that you immediately depart with this temptation N. N. from my body, and (if the temptation is in the soul) from my soul, in the name of God the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit, Amen.
